life cycle of fern
the plant body of fern is divided into
root stem and leaves
leaves are the only aerial part of plant
body
stem is represented by underground
rhizome rhizome is densely clothed with
numerous scales or ramenta
leaves are large compound and look like
a branch hence named as frond
each leaf has a short stock called
petiole
the penny develop on main stock called
ratchets which is the continuous of
petiole
leaflet with sporangia are known as
sporophiles
sporangium bears large number of spores
the sporangia are aggregated in groups
called sorry
the spore is minute dark brown and
tetrahedral in shape
the prophallis is green and heart-shaped
the prothalis lies flat on the ground
and bears many unicellular rhizoids
on the under surface anthoradia and
archigonia are born
and therazoids swim in water by their
cilia
one of the sperm fuses with the egg to
form a zygote
it covers itself with the cell wall and
is called usbor
the uspor divides and redivides to form
the embryo however with the development
of green leaf and root and with the
decay of prothalis sporophyte develops
into an independent plant body